docs/source/http-api.rst, before:

HTTP API
========

This documentation outlines the HTTP API for the Kiwistand P2P node.

Overview
--------

The API provides methods for interacting with the Kiwistand P2P node, including
adding messages and listing messages.

Ports
-----

Kiwistand used to ship with running both the frontend and the node REST API on
the same port (``HTTP_PORT``). To more easily code-split the node code and
frontend code, we're now, however, running the node's REST API on ``API_PORT``.
For news.kiwistand.com it is at 8000.

JSON Schemas
------------

Pagination
..........

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "type": "object",
    "additionalProperties": false,
    "properties": {
      "from": {
        "type": "integer",
        "minimum": 0
      },
      "amount": {
        "type": "integer",
        "minimum": 0,
        "maximum": HTTP_MESSAGES_MAX_PAGE_SIZE
      }
    },
    "required": ["from", "amount"]
  }

.. _message-schema:

Message
.......


.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "type": "object",
    "additionalProperties": false,
    "properties": {
      "timestamp": {
        "type": "integer"
      },
      "type": {
        "type": "string",
        "enum": ["amplify"]
      },
      "title": {
        "type": "string",
        "maxLength": 80
      },
      "href": {
        "type": "string",
        "format": "uri",
        "pattern": "^https?://",
        "maxLength": 2048
      },
      "signature": {
        "type": "string",
        "pattern": "0x[a-fA-F0-9]+"
      }
    },
    "required": ["timestamp", "type", "title", "href", "signature"]
  }

API Versioning
--------------

As of the current version, all API endpoints are prefixed with `/api/v1`. This
is part of our move towards better API versioning.

Endpoints
---------

**GET /api/v1/allowlist**

Retrieves the allow list, which includes all Ethereum addresses that have
minted the NFT at the contract located at
`0xebb15487787cbf8ae2ffe1a6cca5a50e63003786 <https://etherscan.io/address/0xebb15487787cbf8ae2ffe1a6cca5a50e63003786>`_.
Please note that it may take some time for the indexer to pick up a new mint
(usually around 1-2 minutes).

**GET /api/v1/delegations**

Retrieves an object of valid delegations in the form of ``to:from``, where
``from`` must be the user's "identity," meaning the wallet they minted the NFT
with, whereas ``to`` can be any delegated Ethereum address.

The rules of what we consider a valid delegation are documented in the
`delegator2 repository <https://github.com/attestate/delegator2>`_.

Please note that it may take some time for the indexer to pick up a new mint
(usually around 1-2 minutes).

**POST /api/v1/list**

Lists messages with the given pagination parameters.

Request body:

- ``from`` (integer): The number of entries the request should be offset by. It
  is inclusive.
- ``amount`` (integer): The number of entries that the request should contain.
  Must be between 0 and HTTP_MESSAGES_MAX_PAGE_SIZE, as defined in the `.env
  file <https://github.com/attestate/kiwistand/blob/main/.env-copy>`_.

Response body

- ``status`` (string): The status of the request. Possible values are "success"
  or "error".
- ``code`` (integer): The HTTP status code.
- ``message`` (string): A brief description of the response.
- ``details`` (string): A more detailed description of the response.
- ``data`` (array): An array of objects, each representing a post. Each post
  object has the following properties:

  * ``href`` (string): The URL of the post.
  * ``signature`` (string): The signature of the post.
  * ``timestamp`` (integer): The timestamp of the post.
  * ``title`` (string): The title of the post.
  * ``type`` (string): The type of the post.
  * ``signer`` (string): The Ethereum address that signed the message. Can be a
    delegated address or the address that represents the user's identity.
  * ``identity`` (string): The Ethereum address of the identity (the wallet
    with which the user minted the NFT).

.. note::

    The list endpoint returns messages slightly different then when you sent
    them to the network, as ``signer`` and ``identity`` represent the
    delegation mapping between custody key and temporary signing key.


**POST /api/v1/messages**

Adds a message to the Kiwistand P2P node.

Request body:

- ``timestamp`` (integer): Unix timestamp. Must be bigger than
  MIN_TIMESTAMP_SECS (1672527600), as defined in the `.env file <https://github.com/attestate/kiwistand/blob/main/.env-copy>`_.
- ``type`` (string): Message type. Currently, only "amplify" is supported.
- ``title`` (string): Message title. Max length is 80 characters.
- ``href`` (string): Message link. Must be a valid URI with a max length of
  2048 characters.
- ``signature`` (string): Message signature. Must match the pattern
  "0x[a-fA-F0-9]+".

Acceptance Criteria for Messages
--------------------------------

1. Every message must comply with the message JSON schema.
2. The timestamp must be bigger than MIN_TIMESTAMP_SECS (1672527600), as
   defined in the `.env file <https://github.com/attestate/kiwistand/blob/main/.env-copy>`_.
3. The timestamp must be accurate according to the amount of seconds defined in
   HTTP_MESSAGES_MAX_PAGE_SIZE (50), as defined in the `.env file <https://github.com/attestate/kiwistand/blob/main/.env-copy>`_.
4. The message signer's address must be in the allowlist or in the list of
   delegated addresses.
5. When running ecrecover on the signature, it must reproduce an address on the
   allowlist. EIP712 is used as the signing method
   (https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-712).
6. For every link, a combination of address, link, and "amplify" type can only
   exist once. This means that every user can only upvote a link once.

Commit message:

Updated contract address to optimism

docs/source/http-api.rst, after:

HTTP API
========

This documentation outlines the HTTP API for the Kiwistand P2P node.

Overview
--------

The API provides methods for interacting with the Kiwistand P2P node, including
adding messages and listing messages.

Ports
-----

Kiwistand used to ship with running both the frontend and the node REST API on
the same port (``HTTP_PORT``). To more easily code-split the node code and
frontend code, we're now, however, running the node's REST API on ``API_PORT``.
For news.kiwistand.com it is at 8000.

JSON Schemas
------------

Pagination
..........

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "type": "object",
    "additionalProperties": false,
    "properties": {
      "from": {
        "type": "integer",
        "minimum": 0
      },
      "amount": {
        "type": "integer",
        "minimum": 0,
        "maximum": HTTP_MESSAGES_MAX_PAGE_SIZE
      }
    },
    "required": ["from", "amount"]
  }

.. _message-schema:

Message
.......


.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "type": "object",
    "additionalProperties": false,
    "properties": {
      "timestamp": {
        "type": "integer"
      },
      "type": {
        "type": "string",
        "enum": ["amplify"]
      },
      "title": {
        "type": "string",
        "maxLength": 80
      },
      "href": {
        "type": "string",
        "format": "uri",
        "pattern": "^https?://",
        "maxLength": 2048
      },
      "signature": {
        "type": "string",
        "pattern": "0x[a-fA-F0-9]+"
      }
    },
    "required": ["timestamp", "type", "title", "href", "signature"]
  }

API Versioning
--------------

As of the current version, all API endpoints are prefixed with `/api/v1`. This
is part of our move towards better API versioning.

Endpoints
---------

**GET /api/v1/allowlist**

Retrieves the allow list, which includes all Ethereum addresses that have
minted the NFT on Optimism at the contract located at
`0x66747bdc903d17c586fa09ee5d6b54cc85bbea45 <https://optimistic.etherscan.io/address/0x66747bdc903d17c586fa09ee5d6b54cc85bbea45>`_.
Please note that it may take some time for the indexer to pick up a new mint
(usually around 1-2 minutes).

**GET /api/v1/delegations**

Retrieves an object of valid delegations in the form of ``to:from``, where
``from`` must be the user's "identity," meaning the wallet they minted the NFT
with, whereas ``to`` can be any delegated Ethereum address.

The rules of what we consider a valid delegation are documented in the
`delegator2 repository <https://github.com/attestate/delegator2>`_.

Please note that it may take some time for the indexer to pick up a new mint
(usually around 1-2 minutes).

**POST /api/v1/list**

Lists messages with the given pagination parameters.

Request body:

- ``from`` (integer): The number of entries the request should be offset by. It
  is inclusive.
- ``amount`` (integer): The number of entries that the request should contain.
  Must be between 0 and HTTP_MESSAGES_MAX_PAGE_SIZE, as defined in the `.env
  file <https://github.com/attestate/kiwistand/blob/main/.env-copy>`_.

Response body

- ``status`` (string): The status of the request. Possible values are "success"
  or "error".
- ``code`` (integer): The HTTP status code.
- ``message`` (string): A brief description of the response.
- ``details`` (string): A more detailed description of the response.
- ``data`` (array): An array of objects, each representing a post. Each post
  object has the following properties:

  * ``href`` (string): The URL of the post.
  * ``signature`` (string): The signature of the post.
  * ``timestamp`` (integer): The timestamp of the post.
  * ``title`` (string): The title of the post.
  * ``type`` (string): The type of the post.
  * ``signer`` (string): The Ethereum address that signed the message. Can be a
    delegated address or the address that represents the user's identity.
  * ``identity`` (string): The Ethereum address of the identity (the wallet
    with which the user minted the NFT).

.. note::

    The list endpoint returns messages slightly different then when you sent
    them to the network, as ``signer`` and ``identity`` represent the
    delegation mapping between custody key and temporary signing key.


**POST /api/v1/messages**

Adds a message to the Kiwistand P2P node.

Request body:

- ``timestamp`` (integer): Unix timestamp. Must be bigger than
  MIN_TIMESTAMP_SECS (1672527600), as defined in the `.env file <https://github.com/attestate/kiwistand/blob/main/.env-copy>`_.
- ``type`` (string): Message type. Currently, only "amplify" is supported.
- ``title`` (string): Message title. Max length is 80 characters.
- ``href`` (string): Message link. Must be a valid URI with a max length of
  2048 characters.
- ``signature`` (string): Message signature. Must match the pattern
  "0x[a-fA-F0-9]+".

Acceptance Criteria for Messages
--------------------------------

1. Every message must comply with the message JSON schema.
2. The timestamp must be bigger than MIN_TIMESTAMP_SECS (1672527600), as
   defined in the `.env file <https://github.com/attestate/kiwistand/blob/main/.env-copy>`_.
3. The timestamp must be accurate according to the amount of seconds defined in
   HTTP_MESSAGES_MAX_PAGE_SIZE (50), as defined in the `.env file <https://github.com/attestate/kiwistand/blob/main/.env-copy>`_.
4. The message signer's address must be in the allowlist or in the list of
   delegated addresses.
5. When running ecrecover on the signature, it must reproduce an address on the
   allowlist. EIP712 is used as the signing method
   (https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-712).
6. For every link, a combination of address, link, and "amplify" type can only
   exist once. This means that every user can only upvote a link once.
